[TFECO-12319] API DOCS For Registry Tagging and Visibility (#2682)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/api-docs/private-registry/stack-components/index.mdx

  --header "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/registry-components/comp-YF7Avu8dHpJev9Cc
```

> ## List all tags for a Stack component configuration

Reviewer: same comments apply as mentioned in module.mdx

[](#sample-response)

```json
{
	"data": {
		"id": "comp-ofwmg98KLJVAiG",
		"type": "registry-components",
		"attributes": {
			"name": "test-monorepo",
			"namespace": "namespace",
			"status": "completed",
			"created-at": "2026-05-20T04:47:13Z",
			"updated-at": "2026-05-20T04:47:13Z",
			"version-statuses": [
				{
					"version": "0.0.2",
					"status": "completed"
				},
				{
					"version": "0.0.1",
					"status": "completed"
				}
			],
			"vcs-repo": {
				"identifier": "test/test-monorepo",
				"display-identifier": "test/test-monorepo",
				"source-directory": "components/database",
				"tag-prefix": null,
				"github-app-installation-id": "fdsgf-gfs46jJJ5KmziM"
			}
		},
		"relationships": {
			"organization": {
				"data": {
					"id": "org-D4Xfmosgv4yfsK5PL",
					"type": "organizations"
				}
			},
			"registry-component-versions": {
				"links": {
					"related": "/api/v2/registry-components/comp-gfhjyhTv8JfdfvgiG/versions"
				}
			},
			"tag-bindings": {
				"links": {
					"related": "/api/v2/registry-components/comp-gfhjyhTv8JfdfvgiG/tag-bindings"
				}
			}
		},
		"links": {
			"self": "/api/v2/registry-components/comp-gfhjyhTv8JfdfvgiG"
		}
	}
}
```

> 

Reviewer: Add:  `<!-- BEGIN: TFC:only -->`

        "version": "0.0.2",
        "status": "completed",
        "tags": [
          {
            "key": "environment",
            "value": "staging"
          }
        ],
        "name": "test-monorepo",
        "namespace": "hashicorp"
      }
    }
  ],
  "links": {
    "self": "https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/registry-components/comp-odB8kcGwTv8JVAiG/versions?filter%5Btagged%5D%5B0%5D%5Bkey%5D=environment&filter%5Btagged%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=staging&page%5Bnumber%5D=1&page%5Bsize%5D=20",
    "first": "https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/registry-components/comp-odB8kcGwTv8JVAiG/versions?filter%5Btagged%5D%5B0%5D%5Bkey%5D=environment&filter%5Btagged%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=staging&page%5Bnumber%5D=1&page%5Bsize%5D=20",
    "prev": null,
    "next": null,
    "last": "https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/registry-components/comp-odB8kcGwTv8JVAiG/versions?filter%5Btagged%5D%5B0%5D%5Bkey%5D=environment&filter%5Btagged%5D%5B0%5D%5Bvalue%5D=staging&page%5Bnumber%5D=1&page%5Bsize%5D=20"
  },
  "meta": {
    "pagination": {
      "current-page": 1,
      "page-size": 20,
      "prev-page": null,
      "next-page": null,
      "total-pages": 1,
      "total-count": 1
    }
  }
}

> ```

Reviewer: Add:  `<!-- END: TFC:only -->`

| [401][] | [JSON API error object][] | User unauthorized                 |
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][] | Component configuration not found |

### Sample request

[](#sample-request-2)

```bash
curl \
  --request GET \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/registry-components/comp-UnpBkfLQJZUXARc6/tag-bindings
```

### Sample response

[](#sample-response-2)

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "id": "tb-vVzfvPfdwelCWSjbJEj",
      "type": "tag-bindings",
      "attributes": {
        "key": "billingID",
        "value": "1543",
        "created-at": "2026-06-28T19:18:49.312Z"
      }
    },
    {
      "id": "tb-1V8fdhepghjKNq",
      "type": "tag-bindings",
      "attributes": {
        "key": "env",
        "value": "staging",
        "created-at": "2026-06-28T19:18:49.318Z"
      }
    }
  ],
  "links": {
    "target": "/api/v2/registry-components/comp-UnpBkfLQJZUXARc6"
  }
}
```

## Add or update tags to a Stack component configuration

[](#add-tags-to-a-stack-component-configuration)

Adds or updates tags for a Stack component configuration in your organization's registry.

> -> **Note:** Removing tags from a Stack component configuration is made via PATCH requests, where the request body will contain only the tag key and values that are currently needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Send a `PATCH` request to the following endpoint to add or update tags for a Stack component configuration in your organization's registry.

To remove tags from a Stack component configuration, omit the tag key and values from the request body when sending the `PATCH` request.
```

`PATCH /api/v2/registry-components/:component_id`

| Parameter       | Description                            |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| `:component_id` | The ID of the component configuration. |

| Status  | Response                  | Reason                                                       |
| ------- | ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [200][] | [JSON API document][]     | Successfully added/updated the tag binding                   |
| [400][] | [JSON API error object][] | Bad Request - Request body cannot be parsed                  |
| [401][] | [JSON API error object][] | User not authorized                                          |
| [404][] | [JSON API error object][] | Component configuration not found                            |

> | [415][] | [JSON API error object][] | Invalid Content Type - content-type must be application/vnd.api+json" |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [415][] | [JSON API error object][] | Invalid `Content- Type` header. The `Content-Type` must be `application/vnd.api+json` |
```

### Request body

[](#request-body)

This PATCH endpoint requires a body containing a JSON object with the following properties as a request payload.

> It is also important to note that the request body must be sent with the `Content-Type` header set to `application/vnd.api+json`, that is different from modules and provides.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To send a `PATCH` request,  the request body must contain a JSON object with the following properties as a request payload.

You must include the `Content-Type` header set to `application/vnd.api+json`, which is not a requirement for other registry artifacts.
```

			"namespace": "namespace",
			"status": "completed",
			"created-at": "2026-05-20T04:47:13Z",
			"updated-at": "2026-05-20T04:47:13Z",
			"version-statuses": [
				{
					"version": "0.0.2",
					"status": "completed"
				},
				{
					"version": "0.0.1",
					"status": "completed"
				}
			],
			"vcs-repo": {
				"identifier": "test/test-monorepo",
				"display-identifier": "test/test-monorepo",
				"source-directory": "components/database",
				"tag-prefix": null,
				"github-app-installation-id": "fdsgf-gfs46jJJ5KmziM"
			}
		},
		"relationships": {
			"organization": {
				"data": {
					"id": "org-D4Xfmosgv4yfsK5PL",
					"type": "organizations"
				}
			},
			"registry-component-versions": {
				"links": {
					"related": "/api/v2/registry-components/comp-gfhjyhTv8JfdfvgiG/versions"
				}
			},
			"tag-bindings": {
				"links": {
					"related": "/api/v2/registry-components/comp-gfhjyhTv8JfdfvgiG/tag-bindings"
				}
			}
		},
		"links": {
			"self": "/api/v2/registry-components/comp-gfhjyhTv8JfdfvgiG"
		}
	}
}
```

<!-- BEGIN: TFC:only -->
## Versions List for a Stack Component Configuration

[](#versions-list-for-a-stack-component-configuration)

> This endpoint returns all the published versions for a Stack component configuration with its tags' information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following endpoint returns all published versions for a Stack component configuration in the registry including the tags attached to each version.
```

| `filter[tagged][INDEX][value]` | **Optional.** Filters versions by tag value.                                                                                         |
| `page[number]`                 | **Optional.** If omitted, the endpoint returns the first page.                                                                           |
| `page[size]`                   | **Optional.** If omitted, the endpoint returns 20 tag bindings per page.                                                                 |

When you provide multiple `filter[tagged]` conditions, the `INDEX` value determines how HCP Terraform combines them:

- Use the same index to combine a key and value with `AND`. For example, `filter[tagged][0][key]=environment&filter[tagged][0][value]=prod` matches tags where the key is `environment` and the value is `prod`.
- Use different indexes to combine conditions with `OR`. For example, `filter[tagged][0][key]=environment&filter[tagged][1][value]=prod` matches tags where the key is `environment` or the value is `prod`.

#### Sample request with query parameters

> The following request is very similar to the previous one, but it filters Component Configuration Versions where the key is `environment` and the value is `staging`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following request filters component configuration versions where the key is `environment` and the value is `staging`.
```
